Welcome back it's time for us to implement our own hash table.
But let's do a bit of an exercise and this may be difficult so don't get upset if you are not able to
finish it.
After this I'll provide a solution video and we'll walk through it.
But as an extra challenge I have created a template for you.
A new hash table that we're going to create.
Yes I know javascript already has objects and we can just simply create one like we've seen before.
But what's the fun in that.
Let's create our own.
Now this hash table has a constructor that will receive a size.
So when we create this hash table we're going to give it a memory space size of 50.
Let's say that we only want 50 shelfs of memory.
We're going to create this DOD data where our data are will live and within it it's going to create
a new array.
And this array is going to hold our information for us.
So we would have something like grapes
and 10000 as our bucket.
So the first item in the array will be an array that is grapes 10000 remember if we looked at the diagram
we have these buckets that our data lives in and because right now we're implementing our own hash tables
we're using array instead of objects.
But the idea is that using a new method that you'll have to create which will be called set you're going
to be able to set grapes as the first index in theory and the number of grapes as the second index in
the array.
And from there we can have a nother method get which retrieves the grapes and returns 10000.
Now you're probably wondering.
Oh boy what is this jibberish.
And I wrote this ahead of time for you because it's not really important as part of the course.
But remember we need a hash function in order to create a hash table and I've created here the smallest
tiniest hash function you can think of.
We're going to talk about what this actually does in the solution video.
For now all you have to know is that it's going to just generate a hash for us.
For example if I do underscore hash here and give it a key.
So let's say that I want to insert grapes and I click run I get 23.
If I click run again I always get 23.
If I change grapes to two s's I get a different memory space.
If I just type in randomly Here again I get different memory spaces all from 0 to 50.
So your challenge here is to create these two new methods set and get that adds to this dot data.
And retrieves from this data again if you're not super familiar with javascript this may be hard but
give it a try.
And in the next video we'll walk through step by step.
I'll see that one.